========================================================================

Roadmap of the Micropolis source code. 

========================================================================

Micropolis designed and implemented by Will Wright, 
Unix porting, optimization and multi player user interface design 
by Don Hopkins (dhopkins@DonHopkins.com), for DUX Software.

========================================================================

Documentation:

  manual
    User manual and help page templates. 

  src/notes
    Notes, to-do lists, lists of potential bugs to work on, and screen
    snapshots.

Resources:

  res

    Resources, data, TCL code, etc.

    Modified standard TCL/Tk widget libraries to support multiple
    displays, by removing uses of global variables, and instead 
    storing screen-specific data in tk_priv map, 
    keyed by "<variable>@<screen>" where screen is
    "[winfo screen $w]", the screen identifier. 

    Data files:
      hexa.112
      hexa.232
      hexa.384
      hexa.385
      hexa.386
      hexa.387
      hexa.388
      hexa.456
      hexa.544
      hexa.563
      hexa.999

    Scenarios:
      snro.111
      snro.222
      snro.333
      snro.444
      snro.555
      snro.666
      snro.777
      snro.888

    String resources:
      stri.202
      stri.219
      stri.301
      stri.356

    Audio files:
      aaah.au
      a.au
      airport.au
      beep.au
      boing.au
      bop.au
      build.au
      bulldoze.au
      chalk.au
      coal.au
      com.au
      computer.au
      cuckoo.au
      e.au
      eraser.au
      expl-hi.au
      expl-low.au
      fire.au
      honk-hi.au
      honk-low.au
      honk-med.au
      ignition.au
      ind.au
      monster.au
      nuclear.au
      o.au
      oop.au
      park.au
      police.au
      quack.au
      query.au
      rail.au
      res.au
      road.au
      rumble.au
      seaport.au
      siren.au
      skid.au
      sorry.au
      stadium.au
      traffic.au
      uhuh.au
      unix.au
      whip.au
      wire.au
      woosh.au
      zone.au

    Modified TCL/Tk standard library code:
    
      button.tcl
        Modified to support multiple displays.
      menu.tcl
        Modified to support multiple displays.
      text.tcl
        Modified to support multiple displays.
      tk.tcl
        Modified to support multiple displays.
      buildidx.tcl
      entry.tcl
      init.tcl
      listbox.tcl
      mkindex.tcl
      parray.tcl
      tclinit.tcl
      tkerror.tcl
      wish.tcl
      wishx.tcl
      tclindex
      tcl.tdx
      tcl.tlb
      tk.tdx
      tk.tlb

    Micropolis user interface code:

      micropolis.tcl
        Micropolis utilities and shared interface code. 
      help.tcl
        Micropolis help messages.
      wask.tcl
        Ask question window.
      wbudget.tcl
        Budget window.
      weditor.tcl
        Map editor window.
      weval.tcl
        Evaluation window.
      wfile.tcl
        File open window.
      wfrob.tcl
        Frob window (dynamic zone finder sliders).
      wgraph.tcl
        Graph window.
      whead.tcl
        Head main application window.
      whelp.tcl
        Help window.
      wmap.tcl
        Map overview window.
      wnotice.tcl
        Notice message window.
      wplayer.tcl
        Add player window.
      wscen.tcl
        Choose scenario window.

    Micropolis sound server code:

      sound.tcl
        Code loaded by sound server, 
	which runs in another process,
	and is controlled via the TCL "send" command. 
	No longer used. 
	Sound should be built into Micropolis, using a modern standard sound library (and file formats). 

Base Libraries:

  src/tcl
    TCL language interpreter.
    Free software.
    Modified for unix porting.

  src/tk
    Tk user interface toolkit.
    Free software.
    Modified for unix porting, multiple display support, various extensions and bug fixes.
    See src/notes/to.ouster (message about multiple display support),
	src/notes/TkVersion (description of origin and changes in tk)

  src/tclx
    Useful extensions to TCL/Tk.
    Free software.
    Modified for unix porting.

Micropolis source code:

  src/sim

  src/sim/terrain

========================================================================
Micropolis, Unix Version.  This game was released for the Unix platform
in or about 1990 and has been modified for inclusion in the One Laptop
Per Child program.  Copyright (C) 1989 - 2007 Electronic Arts Inc.  If
you need assistance with this program, you may contact:
  http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Micropolis  or email  micropolis@laptop.org.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.  You should have received a
copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If
not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

            ADDITIONAL TERMS per GNU GPL Section 7

No trademark or publicity rights are granted.  This license does NOT
give you any right, title or interest in the trademark SimCity or any
other Electronic Arts trademark.  You may not distribute any
modification of this program using the trademark SimCity or claim any
affliation or association with Electronic Arts Inc. or its employees.

Any propagation or conveyance of this program must include this
copyright notice and these terms.

If you convey this program (or any modifications of it) and assume
contractual liability for the program to recipients of it, you agree
to indemnify Electronic Arts for any liability that those contractual
assumptions impose on Electronic Arts.

You may not misrepresent the origins of this program; modified
versions of the program must be marked as such and not identified as
the original program.

This disclaimer supplements the one included in the General Public
License.  TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMISSIBLE UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, THIS
PROGRAM IS PROVIDED TO YOU "AS IS," WITH ALL FAULTS, WITHOUT WARRANTY
OF ANY KIND, AND YOUR USE IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK.  THE ENTIRE RISK OF
SATISFACTORY QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE RESIDES WITH YOU.  ELECTRONIC ARTS
DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY
RIGHTS, AND WARRANTIES (IF ANY) ARISING FROM A COURSE OF DEALING,
USAGE, OR TRADE PRACTICE.  ELECTRONIC ARTS DOES NOT WARRANT AGAINST
INTERFERENCE WITH YOUR ENJOYMENT OF THE PROGRAM; THAT THE PROGRAM WILL
MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS; THAT OPERATION OF THE PROGRAM WILL BE
UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, OR THAT THE PROGRAM WILL BE COMPATIBLE
WITH THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE OR THAT ANY ERRORS IN THE PROGRAM WILL BE
CORRECTED.  NO ORAL OR WRITTEN ADVICE PROVIDED BY ELECTRONIC ARTS OR
ANY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY.  SOME
JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF OR LIMITATIONS ON IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OR THE LIMITATIONS ON THE APPLICABLE STATUTORY RIGHTS OF A
CONSUMER, SO SOME OR ALL OF THE ABOVE EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS MAY
NOT APPLY TO YOU.
